Within the large overview map, were worked in detailed maps for towns and municipalities, so-called original-lay-of-the-land sheets.
According to information from the Bavarian Surveying and Mapping Authority, these came into being between 1810 and 1864 and arise out of the first survey of Bavaria.
The French army commander had occupied Bavaria since the spring in 1800, during the War of the Second Coalition with Austria.
Napoleon wanted to gain an overview of the occupied land and commissioned a topographical survey – naturally for military purposes.
Even if the French troops finally retreated with the Treaty of Lunéville from 9th February 1801: it was the current neighbours who had the idea to create a comprehensive map of Bavaria.
Elector Max IV. Joseph propelled the project further forward, founding the "Topographical Bureau" – and with that, the Bavarian Surveying and Mapping Authority.
The original lay-of-the-land sheet for Munich originates from 1856 and, like all the others, can be found on the website of the Bavarian State Library.
The comparison of past/present is most impressive taking the example of the state capital.
The city has stretched out in all directions and coalesced.
An example of this is Untersendling, which still appears relatively isolated on the map from 1856.
Sendling was incorporated as an urban district of Munich 21 years after the map was created.
Today, Untersendling lies in the middle of the city.
Around 1856, Untersendling's houses are concentrated along what is today Plinganserstraße, which was first named in 1878 after Georg Sebastian Plinganser, a ringleader of the Bavarian farmers' revolt against Austria in 1705.
Where the West Park is today, one sees nothing but field – at first sight: upon zooming in, a more detailed small-scale map with dozens of lines and numbers appears: hand-numbered plots from the so-called "original record", from which the property tax was derived.
Today, it is no longer farmers who occupy small parcels there – rather, it is allotment holders of the "Land in Sonne" facility.
A large green area is apparent to the north of Untersendling.
Theresienwiese, since 1810 the scene of Oktoberfest, was in the 19th century still actually a "Wiese" – a meadow – and not a concrete wasteland.
On the other side of the Isar, the historical map gives an insight into the history of psychiatric medicine.
In the original lay-of-the-land sheet, in the area where today the borough of Au-Haidhausen is, one can make out not only the street name "am Gasteig" or the elevation "Auf der Lüften" – but can actually read in large letters "mental asylum".
Yes, here on Auerfeldstraße, they once imprisoned people with delusions.
The Munich district mental asylum "Auf der Auer Lüften" had come to life there in 1858/59.
From 1872, Dr. Bernhard von Gudden led the institution – the psychiatrist who is associated with the death of King Ludwig II.
He was progressive for his time and ended, for example, the practice of chaining up the so-called mad men.
What is more, he forbade the staff from using violence against the inmates," says Hermann Wilhelm, leader of the Haidhausen Museum, which has been busying itself for an exhibition with the establishment.
Originally there was place for 280 patients; later this was expanded to 500 places.
To the west lies the football pitch of TSV München Ost, and to the east, residential houses from the 1980s.
In 2015, the "Casa Don Bosco" nursery was built – in the architectural style of the original mental asylum building, which had been destroyed in the Second World War in bomb attacks.
Marienplatz was recorded as the "main square" in around 1856, and Kaufingerstraße was called "Kaufinger Gasse".
The Second World War also brought a decisive change to the heart of Munich.
The bombs of the Allies tore many holes in the city centre in December 1944.
Munich 1856: Four maps that will change your view of the city
A mental asylum, where today young people are said to meet.
A crypt chapel, where they are now digging tunnels for the S-Bahn.
The oldest official map of Munich brings captivating stories to light.
It is annoying when geographical maps are not up-to-date.
Anyone who has ever got worked up because the car's sat-nav is showing a green field instead of a bypass knows that.
The historical maps of the digital BayernAtlas, an offering from the State Government's Geoportal Bayern, are anything but up-to-date – and yet it is precisely for this reason that they are so informative.
Especially when one compares them with current online maps.
Then it becomes clear how the towns and municipalities in the distribution area of Munich's Merkur newspaper have changed since the 19th century.
The digital BayernAtlas is a patchwork quilt that one doesn't quite recognise for what it is at first.
