A crypt chapel, where they are now digging tunnels for the S-Bahn.
Especially when one compares them with current online maps.
A large green area is apparent to the north of Untersendling.
The French army commander had occupied Bavaria since the spring in 1800, during the War of the Second Coalition with Austria.
One hopes that with that, afforestation of the area could then be drawn out for a long while.
Elector Max IV. Joseph propelled the project further forward, founding the "Topographical Bureau" – and with that, the Bavarian Surveying and Mapping Authority.
Yes, here on Auerfeldstraße, they once imprisoned people with delusions.
Today, it is no longer farmers who occupy small parcels there – rather, it is allotment holders of the "Land in Sonne" facility.
On the other side of the Isar, the historical map gives an insight into the history of psychiatric medicine.
Munich 1856: Four maps that will change your view of the city
The Fischerbach pasture fence project is a successful project and will be continued next year.
The bombs of the Allies tore many holes in the city centre in December 1944.
From 1872, Dr. Bernhard von Gudden led the institution – the psychiatrist who is associated with the death of King Ludwig II.
Marienplatz was recorded as the "main square" in around 1856, and Kaufingerstraße was called "Kaufinger Gasse".
Originally there was place for 280 patients; later this was expanded to 500 places.
The digital BayernAtlas is a patchwork quilt that one doesn't quite recognise for what it is at first.
People need to be ready, whether it's bringing bail money with them, or letting relatives know they are traveling through the state.
According to information from the Bavarian Surveying and Mapping Authority, these came into being between 1810 and 1864 and arise out of the first survey of Bavaria.
The city has stretched out in all directions and coalesced.
Sendling was incorporated as an urban district of Munich 21 years after the map was created.
An example of this is Untersendling, which still appears relatively isolated on the map from 1856.


















