Around 1856, Untersendling's houses are concentrated along what is today Plinganserstraße, which was first named in 1878 after Georg Sebastian Plinganser, a ringleader of the Bavarian farmers' revolt against Austria in 1705.
Where the West Park is today, one sees nothing but field – at first sight: upon zooming in, a more detailed small-scale map with dozens of lines and numbers appears: hand-numbered plots from the so-called "original record", from which the property tax was derived.
Today, it is no longer farmers who occupy small parcels there – rather, it is allotment holders of the "Land in Sonne" facility.
On the other side of the Isar, the historical map gives an insight into the history of psychiatric medicine.
Within the large overview map, were worked in detailed maps for towns and municipalities, so-called original-lay-of-the-land sheets.
A crypt chapel, where they are now digging tunnels for the S-Bahn.
Especially when one compares them with current online maps.
A large green area is apparent to the north of Untersendling.
The city has stretched out in all directions and coalesced.
Napoleon wanted to gain an overview of the occupied land and commissioned a topographical survey – naturally for military purposes.
The original lay-of-the-land sheet for Munich originates from 1856 and, like all the others, can be found on the website of the Bavarian State Library.
An example of this is Untersendling, which still appears relatively isolated on the map from 1856.
To the west lies the football pitch of TSV München Ost, and to the east, residential houses from the 1980s.
From 1872, Dr. Bernhard von Gudden led the institution – the psychiatrist who is associated with the death of King Ludwig II.
What is more, he forbade the staff from using violence against the inmates," says Hermann Wilhelm, leader of the Haidhausen Museum, which has been busying itself for an exhibition with the establishment.
Originally there was place for 280 patients; later this was expanded to 500 places.
