As befits a show about the Temptations, the most infectiously rhythmic of chart-topping R&B groups, "Ain't Too Proud" keeps time in style.
I don't mean that solely in terms of a beat that makes you feel like dancing.
Of course, as you watch this latest entry in Broadway's ever-expanding jukebox musical sweepstakes, you will no doubt find your legs twitching, as if from muscle memory.
That's the urge being translated with such sublime grace by those five natty men on the stage, Platonic ideals of stepping high and looking fine.
But it is also true that time, unforgiving and unstoppable, is cannily presented as the shaping element in "Ain't Too Proud:
The Life and Times of the Temptations," which opened on Thursday under the shrewd direction of Des McAnuff, with sensational choreography by Sergio Trujillo.
As the show charts the changing fortunes of men who became synonymous with Motown's glory days, the years keep moving forward with the relentlessness of a conveyor belt in an auto-making assembly line.
It's enough to wear a strong man down.
And more than any of the (oh so many) pop-songbook shows that have befallen Broadway since the Abba-spouting behemoth "Mamma Mia!" opened in 2001, "Ain't Too Proud" is a story of attrition.
We watch as the core lineup of the original Temptations is whittled down to the last man standing.
That's the group's leader and show's narrator, Otis Williams, played with anchoring gravity by Derrick Baskin.
Ultimately, though, it's the music that's the sole survivor.
And that's what's being celebrated here - the collective miracle of a blissfully silken sound forged out of clashing egos, many misfires and life-wrecking hard work into numbers that keep playing in our memories.
While honoring all the expected biomusical clichés, which include rolling out its subjects' greatest hits in brisk and sometimes too fragmented succession, this production refreshingly emphasizes the improbable triumph of rough, combustible parts assembled into glistening smoothness.
Dominique Morisseau, who wrote the show's book, is the gifted author of a cycle of smart, tough-minded plays based in her native Detroit, where much of "Ain't Too Proud" is also set.
Her script, adapted from Otis Williams's 1988 memoir, reminds us that the Detroit-based Motown Records - the crossover label run by Berry Gordy (Jahi Kearse) that revolutionized pop music - was indeed a factory of sorts, one that rigorously processed and refined raw talent for mass consumption.
This means that unlike such current fare as "Beautiful" (about Carole King), and "The Cher Show", "Ain't Too Proud" isn't focused on a single star, with the attendant by-the-numbers psychology.
Instead, we have a study in group dynamics, in which the balance shifts in ways big and small, as the component parts keep changing.
